# STA-145-Final-Project
For my replication package for my STA-145 final project I chose to analyze the relationship between population and unemployment rate in different cities amongst the United States
# Instructions 
To access and utilize the script open the "paszkoh1-finalproject.R" file, which contains the code for my project. To access the data set, open the "stats-data(1).csv" file
# Data
I collected a data set for 120 major United States cities. I focused on two quantitative variables one being population size and the other being unemployment rate. The population size is the total number of residents that live in each city. Population size varies widely amongst cities, some have about 200,000 people living in them while other larger cities have millions of residents. The unemployment rate represents the percentage of the city's labor force that is unemployed, this varied roughly between 2.2% and 8%. I created a scatterplot, and ran a linear regression test to examine the relationship between these two variables. 
# Operationalization
I operationalized each city's size using the total population which gave me a continous measurement of how large the city is. I operationalized the city's economic conditions by using the unemployment rate measured by a percentage of the labor force that is unemployed. These measurments allowed me analyze whether larger cities tend to have higher or lower unemployment rates. The results from my regression test showed that there is little to no relationship between population size and unemployment rate, and the slope was not statistically significant. 
